# Homework 1

**Homework 1**

There are many different practical and useful advantages of Artificial Reality and Virtual Reality. VR and AR are similar but can have different practical uses. An example of some good applications for VR includes a more immersive way for training or practicing different skills. There are times where an occupation may need training that could be dangerous or in an exotic environment. Companies can use this technology to control every aspect to fine tune a training situation in a controlled environment. This can allow for consistent training and can allow a trainer to focus on specific skills. VR technologies could easily be used to train occupations such as military soldiers. Soldiers could be easily immersed into different scenarios and could be monitored through the whole training. VR technology for training purposes could also save money for companies because it will allow trainers to spend much less on a training environment.

On the other hand, I believe AR has very good applications in education. Nowadays children are more and more in tuned with their devices such as their cellphones, tablets, and computers. Since these devices are readily available, technology such as AR could easily be incorporated to schools and education. With AR students can grasp visual aspects of lessons. Things like depth and color could help to immerse students in their education. Not only will student be able to interact with the digital world, but also be able to see the digital world interact with the real world. Student will be able to recall what they learn better because they will be able to experience what they are learning. Incorporating AR into education makes learning more interactive and would make student want to come to school.

A big advantage that both VR and AR currently share is entertainment. VR and AR allows users to interact with different environments that they would not normally see. Being fully immersed in these environments makes things such as games much more engaging. Now gamers aren’t glued to their chair, but moving and active. Not only do these games allow users to be active, but it also allows users to interact with friends in different environments. A good example of this is the use of AR in the mobile application Pokémon Go. Pokémon Go allows users to show off their digital inventory as well as create AR engaging events. Though VR and AR have a long way to go to be massively adopted at home and at work, it still currently has a massive number of advantages to it. As it continues to improve and become more accessible, I believe more and more of use cases for this technology to positively affect our lives will be found and we will see it integrated more into our everyday life.
